hi this is Eric Warren Report game geek
news i'm here with nicholas to minsk
ascend alina two men skits and we're
looking at world's war one which is not
a finnish game iya or not published game
you got a prototype projects they're not
a published game but it is a finished
game the game itself is complete and we
just wanted to give a low demo of the
game right here to you all it's world
war one is a 225 player steampunk game
it's set in an alternate history where
the first world war takes place in outer
space ok you can start off as one of
five unique home worlds each home world
has its own unique handicap and its own
unique strengths so there's the United
planets of America intergalactic Russian
Empire germania prime if you are more
inclined towards aggression Britain the
British trade conglomerate for the
traders and people like to trade and
barter and then there's the Asiatic
League of interstellar expansion and
those are more for the passive
aggressive players that like to sort of
manipulate the battle from behind the
scenes it's a lot of diplomacy faced
homeworld the way that the game is
played is you there are multiple paths
to victory so you can get you win by
getting ten victory points but you can
get those victory points in one of five
different ways you can either destroy
other people's planets and again Germany
is geared towards that victory point of
course they're not locked into that
victory point they can always deviate if
they wish you can defend the planet so
if you like to be a very peaceful player
and help other people play you can be
America and defend their planets trading
will get you a victory point producing
10 or more resources in a turn will give
you the career point and controlling
more than three or more unique color
planets will also get you a victory
point each turn and what's an HR
gameplay I got the text here yes we have
there are four different types of cards
there you have your your troop cards
which are the ones that are actually
going to help you defend your planets
and then you're going to use them to
attack other people you have your actual
planets and the planets are the cards
that are going to get you resources and
you can use these two
to get resources for yourself or you can
use them to barter for other people and
trade with them to get some other cards
that you might be interested in
development and diplomacy cards are the
white backs and your developments are
going to be your sort of country
specific cards that are going to help
out and be you know they're going to
have like the characters that would be
unique to each homeworld so for example
British trade conglomerate will have
Winston Churchill you'll have Lawrence
of Arabia as well so these are actual
historical characters they're just in an
infant in space exactly so and then your
diplomacy cards those are the cards that
you use to manipulate the game by
basically their these are kind of like
instance if you will so you use it once
and it gets discarded but it has they're
very powerful effects ok and then nature
gameplay where each kind of a hand a
card we yeah how do we the way the keys
that plate is each player will get to
start off with a home world you pick
your home world first and then you get
four cards from each pile and then you
just go through the turn phase is in
order it's a turn-based so I'll go first
and then you'll go and we each go
through these turn phases the first turn
phase is to discard down to 10 cards
which you start off with eight so you
don't generally skip that phase for a
couple times then you produce your
resources and so that means that your
planet so you have in play will give you
resources to spend on cards and also you
get a draw one card from each pile then
it's a trade phase which is the fun
phase because then you get to negotiate
and based upon how how much of a barter
traitor you are you know it could become
very heated during that phase a good
rule of thumb for training is that the
cost of the card up here is that the
number up here tells the cost of the
card how much resources get the pay to
play the card and the color tells the
color of the resource that you need to
pay that card a good rule of thumb is
that this is good indicator of value so
a 2 for a 2 would be a good trade
perhaps ton of course ideally benefiting
you both above everyone else exactly
ectly then after the trade base comes
your diplomacy phase and that's where
the action happens that's where you get
to attack other players and other
players if you initiate a diplomacy
phase then you have the yet to be
careful because other people then can
use their diplomacy cards against you
and come jump in and defend and then
finally is the industry phase where you
build your empire you use the resources
that you have and the cards you have in
your hand you can put them down into
play and then you get to use those cards
throughout the game and the gameplay
mechanics are very very simple to learn
but the depth of the game comes from the
different cards in which you are if
you're able to basically go down
multiple paths and you can even switch
colors which will give you entirely new
branches of passive options that you
would have so what we found is we're
really trying to make this like to defy
player chess we're in every turn you had
more options than you could possibly do
but based upon the circumstance and what
other people are playing that's going to
dictate what cards you'll use and it's
it's good in the sense that everybody
with has given us feedback to say that
you know they've always the game ends
and they still like oh I wanted to do
this this and this and this and they
couldn't do it because the game is over
so in that sense it's great because
people want to come back and play it
again and again and again and this is a
complete gaming system so there's the
main game which I've just kind of
described but I have many little mini
games built in which you can use the
same exact cards so for example there's
a game called the fleet engagement and
all that uses is just the the airship
and the fleet troops and you choose of
our tube players instead of two to five
you just two players and you can use all
those and basically have a fleet battle
with just the fleet and airship troops
okay and there are many other ten games
as well well thanks very much for the
interview yeah and good luck thank you
very much